1. Development Tools:
Text Editor or IDE:
VS Code (Visual Studio Code) or PyCharm: Both are excellent choices for Python development, offering features like syntax highlighting, code completion, and integration with version control systems like Git.
Python Environment Management:
Pyenv or Anaconda: For managing Python versions and virtual environments, ensuring you have the right dependencies and Python version for your project.
2. Backend Framework:
Flask: A lightweight web framework for building the API layer.

You could also use FastAPI if you want faster performance and automatic interactive documentation (via Swagger).
Install Flask via pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install Flask
SQLAlchemy: An ORM (Object Relational Mapper) for managing database models and queries in Python.

Install SQLAlchemy via pip:

bash

pip install SQLAlchemy
3. Database:
PostgreSQL: A powerful, open-source SQL database for storing rules and AST structures.

You can use pgAdmin for easy database management (visualizing tables, running queries, etc.).
Alternative: SQLite (for local development or small-scale projects).
Install PostgreSQL: https://www.postgresql.org/download/

Alembic: A tool for handling database migrations when using SQLAlchemy (optional but recommended for managing schema changes over time).

Install Alembic via pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install alembic
4. Frontend Tools (Optional):
HTML/CSS/JavaScript:

Use basic web technologies to create a simple user interface for inputting and testing rules.
Use Bootstrap (optional) for responsive design and better UI/UX.
Postman (for API Testing):

Use Postman to test the API endpoints (/create_rule, /combine_rules, /evaluate_rule) without needing a complete frontend.
Install Postman from https://www.postman.com/downloads/.
5. Testing:
Pytest: A testing framework to write unit and integration tests for Python code.

It helps ensure the logic for creating, combining, and evaluating rules works as expected.
Install Pytest via pip:

bash

pip install pytest
Unittest: Python's built-in testing framework, which can be used if you're looking for a simpler option for basic test cases.

6. Version Control:
Git: Use Git for version control, tracking changes, and collaboration. Platforms like GitHub or GitLab can be used to store the project repository.
7. Deployment (Optional):
Docker: To containerize your application, ensuring it runs consistently across different environments.

You can define a Dockerfile for your Flask app and a docker-compose.yml to handle multi-container setups with PostgreSQL.
Install Docker: https://www.docker.com/get-started

Heroku or AWS: For deploying the application to the cloud.

Heroku can be used for quick deployment with its free tier for small applications.
AWS (EC2, RDS for database, etc.) for more scalable production-level deployment.
8. Security Tools (Optional for Production):
Flask-Security or Flask-JWT-Extended: For adding authentication and security to your API endpoints if needed for production use.

Install Flask-Security via pip:

bash

pip install Flask-Security
SSL Certificates: Use Let's Encrypt for securing your app with HTTPS if deploying to production.

Summary of Tools:
Development: VS Code, PyCharm, Pyenv/Anaconda.
Backend: Flask (or FastAPI), SQLAlchemy.
Database: PostgreSQL (or SQLite), pgAdmin.
Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap (optional), Postman (API testing).
Testing: Pytest, Unittest.
Version Control: Git (GitHub/GitLab).
Deployment: Docker, Heroku, AWS.
Security: Flask-Security, Let's Encrypt.
These tools should provide a robust development environment for building and deploying your rule engine.
